---
layout: article
titles:
  # @start locale config
  en      : &EN       About
  en-GB   : *EN
  en-US   : *EN
  en-CA   : *EN
  en-AU   : *EN
  zh-Hans : &ZH_HANS  关于
  zh      : *ZH_HANS
  zh-CN   : *ZH_HANS
  zh-SG   : *ZH_HANS
  zh-Hant : &ZH_HANT  關於
  zh-TW   : *ZH_HANT
  zh-HK   : *ZH_HANT
  ko      : &KO       소개
  ko-KR   : *KO
  fr      : &FR       À propos
  fr-BE   : *FR
  fr-CA   : *FR
  fr-CH   : *FR
  fr-FR   : *FR
  fr-LU   : *FR
  # @end locale config
key: page-about
---

Peter A. Gustafson, PhD is a Professor of Mechanical & Aerospace
Engineering (College of Engineering an Applied Sciences) and an
Associate Professor of Medical Engineering (Homer Stryker MD School of
Medicine) at Western Michigan University. His multidisciplinary
research focuses on analytical and experimental structural mechanics
of heterogeneous and composite materials.  Areas of application
include ground and flight vehicles, 3D printed flight structures,
tissues and materials in musculoskeletal biomechanics, and medical
device design and development.  His recent contributions have focused
on machine learning and multi-scale modeling techniques for prediction
of fiber reinforced composite and 3D printed metallic structural
damage.

Dr. Gustafson is currently enjoying a sabbatical as a visiting scholar
at [NASA Glenn Research
Center](https://www.nasa.gov/centers/glenn/home/index.html) and will
return to WMU in Fall of 2022.

Beyond structural mechanics, Dr. Gustafson is active in open source
software and hardware.  In developing medical devices, Dr. Gustafson
has used low cost open hardware microcontrolers as well as an open
source software infrastructure to increase accessibility for use in
low resource settings.

<!--The impact of open source hardware and software on medical device
development, health information, and treatment.

Recent highlights include composite delamination, decohesion of adhesively
bonded joints, application specific finite elements, and inverse
modeling.-->

Prior to joining the faculty at WMU, Dr. Gustafson was an active
member of the Composite Structures Laboratory of the Department of
Aerospace Engineering at the University of Michigan.  He also spent
six years working at the Ford Motor Company where he focused on
prediction of powertrain durability.  At Ford, his research included
an investigation of aluminum ductility and thermal growth; an
important aspect of the project was his work on stress measurements in
silicon using Raman Spectroscopy.  His work has also included
investigations of the the impact behavior of thermoplastics.
